Hi everyone!
Let's discover together Python exceptions.
Hierarchy in Python.
All exceptions are derived from the base exception class.
This means that every exception in Python is an instance of base exception or one of its subclasses.
The base exception class is the top level class in the exception hierarchy.
It provides some common methods that all exceptions can use, such as str and dripper.
However, you should not use base exception directly in your code, as it's too broad and can catch
any type of exception.
Instead, you should use more specific exception classes that are subclasses of base exception like
we see in the last chapters.
Python provides a number of built an exception classes that you can use, and you can also create your
own custom exception classes.
The following diagram shows the hierarchy of building exception classes in Python.
Only the first level we have Bayes exception as a top level class has some subclasses like generator
exit, Keyboardinterrupt, system exit, and exception.
This is the first level of hierarchy.
Exception also has a lot of subclasses like arithmetic error, name error, type error, and also runtime
error.
And this is considered as a second level of hierarchy.
But we can have other levels.
For example, zero division error is a subclass of arithmetic error file not found.
Error is a subclass of OS error.
This means that file not found error is a subclass of OS error, which is a subclass of the exception
class, which itself inherits from the base exception.
Let's do another example.
Floating point error is a is a subclass of arithmetic error.
Arithmetic error is a subclass of exception, and exception is a subclass of base exception.
To remember the description of each exception, just.
We need to go back in the chapter building exceptions and you can get all this exception with her description.
Small recap.
Base exception is the top level class of all exceptions.
Exception is considered as the base of all other exceptions like here in this diagram.
And we have also other exception like generator exit, keyboard interrupt and system exit.
Also when we define the try except block, we need to specify the more specific exception class to know
exactly the origin of error.
That's it for this video.